Welcome to the rip and rip film told in this video.
You'll learn how to use the rippetoe.
You'll learn how to use the RIP filter all too and you'll understand that this is useful when you wish
to add detail that would otherwise be difficult or even time consuming to construct.
So let's go play with the RIP tool now and hop on over into a blender.
Okay so instead of working on our lovely head that's coming together really well.
And incidentally you can see here that we've got a couple of what looks like construction lines are
coppin's.
It made him just see.
You know we've got a couple of these relatively close together and a big angle and we can see that's
actually making some shapes in the surface of our model so we have to refine that.
We do that later because that's detail raavan Features.
So let's open up a brand new blender file once we've opened up that brand new blender.
I'm going to get rid of the felt cube an add in a grid.
So under the mesh options we can add in a grid and the reason for that is it's going to be much easier
to demonstrate the RIP tool in a sort of a 2D plane like this one will hop into edit mode.
Now it's created that's got a default setting of 10 steps in it.
So if yours may look different have you been playing with the grid in a past environment and ended up
changing some of the parameters but you should end up with something that looks roughly like this.
So let's go ahead and first of all work out where Ripp is.
Well it's a virtex command so it would be under the mesh vertices.
And at the top here weaknesses is rip and rip fill now under edges you can actually rip an edge but
it's still a virtex command because an edge is as we all know two vertices joined together.
Now we go ahead and try and rip that we could see that the shortcut key for that was v.
And we can see here that it actually pulls it apart.
If I move it in the y axis I can move further apart and we end up with this new shape being formed or
in fact in this case a hole in our model.
And that's very powerful when you need to do things like this.
You can already see that we could now select these two and also move them back on the y axis and that
could have been the basis for the eye that we were working on as well.
So there's plenty of options when you come to a model of or which way to go with your modelling.
So we've got this hole in here at the moment.
Of course we can select the edge running around there.
Now what an edge loop there and fill it in if necessary.
But there's a command to do that automatically.
So let's go over here to a couple of these two and do the same there and I'm going to use the short
key altes and V which means to rip and fill.
And if I just move that again looking at the wires to there then I can grab this area here and pull
that out and we see that we get a very similar shape but slightly different.
The difference here being that these vertices are still connected whereas before they had been broken.
So it's very similar but you do get a slightly different mesh are doing that.
Now the final thing I do want to go over with the report the RIP Phil tool is that if you have explicitly
selected a face or implied a face by selecting the vertices that may cut that face over you go one two
three four we can see the face becomes highlighted if you attempt to use the RIP tool then it doesn't
work you can't rip that out if you want to do that of course.
You could use p to separate it and move it onto another object and remove it in that way.
There's lots of different ways you could do it and then of course you can move that about.
You could recombine that put that back into the meshuga click this one and the other mesh and join them
back together again as we've done in the past.
Now when you hop here this one itself will be separate to the rest.
So if you did ever want to make a hole that's an entire face you're gonna probably have to do it that
way rather than any other way especially if you wanted this piece here to exactly match where you pull
bits out of.
So that's looking really good there we've got the RIP tool all nailed.
And of course that leads us onto a challenge I would like you to go ahead and define the mouth so use
the report or to help define the mouth geometry.
I would suggest using it to split the lips apart once you've got all the construction geometry in the
right place.
Now once again we are defining features rather than adding detail so just bear that in mind as you're
doing the construction.
Now you end up with a triangle or an end go on towards the corner of your mouth.
Don't worry about it.
We'll be sorting that out in a bit when we learn about polls and how we can use them to define where
are on going.
And finally remember to use version control or remember to save as so that you have a point to return
to.
If it doesn't go to plan to go ahead pause the video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and define the mouth.
Okay so we're back over in blender hop straight on over into edit mode and turn off the subsurface modifier
whilst in edit mode and whiz round to the front view.
Now I've just done a tiny bit of organization in-between videos and I've obviously just broken my my
model my reference material has gone so I need to saw that I'm just going to read.
That now.
This is something that I sometimes suffer with with version control.
My end if I load up a previous version.
But fixing that's not an issue.
So there we go.
I've noticed straightaway and I think it was like this before as well as that my nose and mouth aren't
actually sensual So I've got a whole downshifts doesn't scoot all over the place and just move it into
the appropriate location.
Okay it's probably a little bit too far one way.
I'm not going to argue too much over small details though so they're all dope.
Get So now that we've got that roughly in the right place.
We need to define the mouth some going to go ahead and or whip out the knife tool straight away and
cut a round arm model in a way that gets us through and round sir up started a bit Hi there and a right
click and cancel that into this lower one and when the cuts to their well the lip actually goes up and
then down again.
This is of course going to create us a well and N gone which will sort out in a few moments it comes
down a winner.
Go all the way to that edge and back again.
And of course this is also going to produce and triangles but I'm not too worried about at the moment.
And now going to cuts through here.
And to the end here I am going to apply that with the space bar and there we go we've got our lips roughly
lined up now.
We've got these other lines go around our model here that aren't quite right.
So I'm going to end up with another loop going round here before I do anything else and I'm going to
do a bit of modifying with these verses and I'm also going to split the mouth open as well.
I probably do turn proportional editing off at this point.
So that was it back on you smashed the keys instead.
Okay so we've.
And let's just check and see if we've got any loops going round at the moment so there are no loops
working at this present time.
So I'm going to grab the knife tool and actually cut this part of the lip orderer want to do that at
the moment.
Now I don't want to do that at the moment.
First of all I'm going to split the lip.
That sounds painful but I want to be in virtex smokers I want to say that one of these ones here and
that one they're not the end one.
Now I want to move the lip down so I'm going to have my cursor below where we're ripping Empress V then
I should be able to part it's excellent.
Now I don't need this virtex here anymore so I am literally going to dissolve that virtex.
Excellent.
So as it comes around here we've got a couple of options.
We are going to have to do something with this.
Scoot back round to the front.
We're going to have to do something.
We have this bit here because that's going to break the loop because it's a five sided end.
Gone.
Just try it again.
There there.
Now I'm going to go up to the bottom of the nose but no further.
In this case and press enter to apply that let's just make sure the are face loop is now working this
way.
Yep.
And this way suppose to.
So these two aren't quite there yet.
There's a couple of ways that I can sort that out.
I can see the subdivide these two edges are indeed cut it through with the knife and speed wise they're
almost the same sarm going to press W and subdivide specials menu and subdivide.
They have you got the tool shelf.
You could use the subdivide button there.
Or you could of course gone control an E Broad's have the menu and subdivide it bears Well lots of ways
of doing this or indeed just cut through the knife to I only want one cuts it divides in two and then
the final thing to do here is with the snapping tool turned on it's just merge these vertices together.
So we need to be invert select.
And what that should now do if I can plan my model is actually make a loop going round there perfect
their loop stops here and this one stops here quite simply because we've got a in n gone just here.
Now at this moment in time of course we got to question well how far round do I want to go because eventually
the eyes and the mouth at such will be defined with much more broadly sweeping loops going round as
well.
So at this point in time I'm happy with the lips that I'm going to hop out in to objet men just spin
round.
The lips are looking good.
Their looks like the face is a little bit forward.
Not a problem.
Looks like one of those things out of Dr Who.
Forgive me for not knowing their actual name but yes that's absolutely fine for the moment because we're
going to have to do a bit of reid's apology here just to make sure that the loop's run round as we expect
them to.
So great how did you guys get on did you manage to define your mouth.
Please share your work in the discussions and I will see you in the next lecture.